It’s a pleasure to welcome you
to JW Broadcasting®.
What can we look forward to
in this month’s program?
In the series “Iron Sharpens Iron,”
we’ll join an experienced circuit overseer
for some field-tested suggestions
on how we can use questions
to start and continue good conversations
in the ministry.
Day after day,
our young people are tested
to compromise their integrity.
We’ll meet Cory and Kamryn,
two young people
who talk frankly about the pressure
they faced in high school to have sex.
How did they resist temptation
and stand their ground?
Do you find the idea
of conducting a Bible study intimidating?
In a new dramatization,
Jade conducts her first Bible study
and learns what it takes
to be an effective teacher.
This is the October 2022 edition
of JW Broadcasting.
For over 100 years,
Jehovah’s organization
has been producing books
to help us teach people Bible truths.
Do you remember
when some of these study books were released?
“This Means Everlasting Life”
was released in 1950;
The Truth That Leads to Eternal Life,
in 1968;
You Can Live Forever in Paradise on Earth,
in 1982;
and Knowledge That Leads to Everlasting Life,
in 1995.
What did those titles have in common?
They showed that it’s possible
for a person to learn
what Jehovah requires to live forever.
And that’s why
we keep searching for people
who are “rightly disposed
for everlasting life”
and who are willing
to study the Bible with us.
All of those books and several more
that we published since then
have been instrumental in helping people
become believers
in our wonderful hope for the future.
In 2021,
we added one more book to the list, entitled
Enjoy Life Forever!
—An Interactive Bible Course.
This title adds another element:
that it’s possible
not only to gain everlasting life
but also to learn how to enjoy life even now.
The title is taken from Psalm 22:26,
which says:
“Those seeking Jehovah will praise him.
May you enjoy life forever.”
This newest study publication
is very different
from all the others that we’ve produced.
In this broadcast,
we want to explain
what went on behind the scenes
to produce Enjoy Life Forever!
Under the direction of the Governing Body,
hundreds of Bethelites around the world
worked very hard to make it possible
for us to have this innovative study tool.
However, they’ll be quick to say
that all credit for this goes to Jehovah.
That’s why we can say
just as the prophet Isaiah said
in ancient times of our great God:
“O Jehovah, . . .
everything we have done
you have accomplished for us.”
We know that any success we enjoy
is because of Jehovah’s direction
and blessing.
And so the theme of this presentation is
“See What Jehovah Has Done for Us!”
“The faithful and discreet slave”
has always taken very seriously
Jesus’ command
recorded at Matthew 28:19:
“Go, . . . and make disciples of people
of all the nations, baptizing them.”
And that’s what our Bible study activity
aims to accomplish.
For decades,
our method of conducting studies
was to study printed material
paragraph by paragraph.
When answering
the questions for the paragraphs,
some students would often just repeat
what was stated in the book.
However,
it was hard to know whether the truth
was really touching their heart.
With Enjoy Life Forever!
we’re using a different method of teaching
that generates candid expressions
by the students in their own words.
This is just what the Governing Body
feels is needed
to bring new ones to dedication and baptism
during these urgent last days.
If you’ve begun conducting Bible studies
with Enjoy Life Forever!,
you can appreciate
how it’s adjusting our Bible study work.
Here’s what some longtime pioneers have said
after covering just one lesson
on their studies:
“This was
the most beautiful spiritual conversation
I have ever had with a student!”
“My student revealed things
she had never told me before.
I felt as if I was hearing her heart
for the first time!”
“It truly reaches the heart
and motivates students to action.”
And one brother wrote:
“I am so excited about this new Bible course
“that I am begging Jehovah to hear my prayers
to be able to conduct progressive studies.”
It was early in 2019
when the Writing Committee
took on the amazing project to produce
a new Bible study tool.
They assembled a team of writers,
designers, and consultants
to investigate whether we could improve
the publications that we were then using.
At the very first discussion session,
everyone was encouraged
to pray often about the task at hand
—to pray when thinking about it,
when brainstorming with others,
and when working on it—
and to respond
to the influence of holy spirit.
Why pray so much?
Proverbs 16:3 gives the answer:
“Commit to Jehovah whatever you do,
and your plans will succeed.”
The team was also encouraged
to think outside the box,
which means to think outside, or beyond,
the way things
have always been done in the past.
Times have changed,
people have changed,
and the way that many prefer to be taught
has changed.
These days they respond better to multimedia
that engages them
and holds their attention.
The team was shown a puzzle
that illustrates what it means
to think outside the box
—the nine-dots puzzle.
The challenge is to connect all nine dots
with just four straight lines.
Here are a few examples
of how some will try to solve the puzzle.
Notice that with each attempt
one dot is missed.
The problem is that our mind tends
to build a box around the dots,
and that instantly limits
what we can imagine.
The only way to connect all nine dots
with just four straight lines
is by going outside the box
and thinking differently
than we normally would.
The point was to show
that novel, creative thinking
was needed to imagine something
other than the traditional way
of studying the Bible with people.
With Jehovah’s spirit guiding fresh thinking,
it would be interesting to see
what innovative ideas could be thought of
for how to teach the truth to Bible students.
And yet,
it was felt that our brothers and sisters
would need to see some familiar features
in the new publication.
That’s why the first part of each lesson
is designed
similar to the Good News  brochure.
It features numbered questions,
each followed by a paragraph
that briefly covers fundamental facts
about the topic.
Next, the “Dig Deeper” section
reasons on the topic,
shows how to apply what’s learned,
and discusses what the topic teaches us
about Jehovah.
It includes features found
in the Life and Ministry Meeting Workbook
—bulleted discussion points,
scriptures to read,
videos to play,
and viewpoint questions to answer.
And like the study articles
in The Watchtower,
the last part of each lesson
includes just three review questions.
It was decided that we could cover
much less printed material
and let the Bible do the teaching
and that we need
to draw out the student’s feelings
with well-worded viewpoint questions
and include videos and generous artwork.
We must help the student
to see Jehovah as a real Person
and to develop
a warm relationship with him
and encourage the student
to get into a routine
of regular Bible reading, prayer,
and meeting attendance.
Does Enjoy Life Forever!  provide
what we need to accomplish all of that?
It certainly does!
The scriptures
are the focal point of each lesson,
so the student is prompted
to find answers in the Bible.
The questions draw out the student’s feelings
about what he’s learning.
Early in the course,
students are helped
to appreciate what Jehovah is like,
to feel his love for them,
and to see how to draw close to him
as their Friend.
The beautiful artwork and motivating videos
have real emotional impact.
This project to produce Enjoy Life Forever!
required the collaboration
of six departments at world headquarters.
As directed by the Governing Body,
the Writing Department researched, wrote,
and proofread the text for each lesson.
These were then sent to hundreds
of brothers and sisters around the world
to test them on their Bible studies.
The Writing Department coordinated the work
with other departments
to keep the project on schedule.
Translation Services helped to simplify
the vocabulary and logic of what was written.
They identified any English text
that would be a problem for translators
to render in their local languages.
As of right now,
Enjoy Life Forever!
has been approved
in upward of 700 languages.
The Art Department designed
the book’s layout and artwork.
Teams in several branches photographed models
to help the illustrators
create the many beautiful scenes
that appear in the book,
which contains over 600 images.
MEPS Programming developed new tools
so that the digital version of the book
in the JW Library®  app
would look similar to the printed edition.
This was the first publication
for which both print and digital formats
were designed simultaneously.
Text Processing Services
composed the text and artwork
for both the print and digital formats,
transcribed the book into English braille,
and instructed the branches
on how to produce the book
in their languages.
Audio/Video Services
produced several new videos and excerpts
of many existing videos
from the jw.org website.
They also produced
unique audio recordings of the book
that include various voices and sounds.
This was truly a collaborative effort!
But there was a major problem
that could have stalled this project:
COVID-19.
When world headquarters and the branches
were locked down,
60 percent of the project
still needed to be completed.
And yet, the Governing Body
had given it high priority.
The following video will give you some idea
of how the departments
worked together to get their work done
despite the challenges
they faced during the pandemic.
Everything about Enjoy Life Forever!
is different from any other publication
we’ve produced in the past.
And from the start of the project,
two things were critical:
good communication and good documentation.
But honestly, time and again,
the thing that proved
to be the most important
was reliance on Jehovah.
The Writing Committee’s goal was to create
a first-class digital experience
that would engage Bible students.
The digital design system
had to be completely remodeled
so that Enjoy Life Forever!  would look uniform
whether it’s viewed in JW Library®,
on jw.org, or in print.
Right from the inception of this project,
the brothers looked for input
so that the study material would be
easily available
in as many languages as possible.
And for that reason,
a team from Translation Services
worked along with the writers.
A publication of this size would usually take
about two or three years to complete,
but the Writing Committee
was really interested
in getting the Enjoy Life Forever!  book
out there as soon as possible.
The Enjoy Life Forever!  book
required an intense amount of collaboration.
Right from the beginning,
the Writing Committee
got all six departments together
so we could work unitedly
through the production.
Our existing tool set didn’t have the ability
to style digital publications
like we can with print.
We could do black text
on a white background with gray boxes.
That was the extent of the functionality
that we had available.
Enjoy Life Forever!
is very interactive for the student.
When producing the audio
for this publication,
we endeavored to maintain that feel.
So we added multiple voices, musical cues
and, in some cases,
the audio track for the video
was reedited to teach the point effectively.
When we got to Lesson 32,
we felt that it might be too complicated
to build as a digital experience,
but that’s when
the collaboration really paid off.
It took every tool that we had
and basically every trick in order to build
the digital version of that lesson.
As we were working on the prototype,
we would collaborate
with the User Experience Group
to make sure that the look and feel
of the digital edition
was the same whether it was on a large device
or a small device.
The entire chart is a visual aid.
So we wanted to be sure
that all of our users,
especially those who are visually impaired,
would be able to understand
the teaching point.
This required us to build the chart
so that screen readers could read the text
and that each picture would have
a description for those who needed it.
Early in the concept stage,
we understood that there would be
about 200 videos in this publication,
requiring thousands of hours of work:
eight brand new videos
and of the remaining videos,
around 60 would need to be edited.
Just as eight new videos
were entering their production phase,
COVID-19 hit,
effectively halting
video production around the world.
This work stoppage continued
until each branch could determine
how they could film safely
and still meet the deadline
only nine months away.
Because of the pandemic,
photo sessions here at headquarters
were completely stopped for four months.
Now, as things progressed,
we were able to resume photography,
only by adhering to strict protocols.
For example,
we had a family photograph themselves
while being directed
by the Art Department here.
So everything that a Bible study conductor
had been trained to do
—ask all the important questions,
develop love for Jehovah
in their Bible students, show videos—
it’s all built into the publication.
So would the concept work
with actual Bible students?
To find out, we did in-house testing.
And then at the same time,
we sent out the lessons
around the world to publishers, pioneers,
missionaries, and circuit overseers.
And they used the lessons
with actual Bible students.
We tested every lesson of the book this way.
And then the responses
that we got back were analyzed,
and we made further refinements.
We had hundreds of team meetings,
and we felt Jehovah’s holy spirit
equipping all of us
after we opened a meeting with prayer.
When you collaborate,
you get a better product.
It’s more direct, simpler,
and easier to understand.
Also, thinking ahead
about potential translation problems
and addressing them
helped expedite translation
in hundreds of languages.
I feel that Jehovah helped us
accomplish this job
in a shorter amount of time
and a quality
that would have been very difficult
even under normal circumstances.
How amazing Jehovah is!
With the Governing Body
wholeheartedly embracing the project
and everyone on the production team
willingly giving their all,
we could see clear evidence
of Jehovah’s backing.
Now that we’ve seen
what Jehovah has wonderfully done for us,
what must we do for him?
Remember,
Jesus’ command at Matthew 28:19, 20
applies to all Christians.
Regarding that command,
note what the article
“Keep Busy During the Last
of ‘the Last Days’” states
in the October 2019 issue of The Watchtower:
“As we conduct Bible studies,
“we have to try our best
to ‘make disciples . . . ,
“teaching them to observe
all the things [Jesus has] commanded.’
“We need to help people understand
how important it is
“for them to take their stand
for Jehovah and his Kingdom.
“This means trying to motivate people
to make the truth their own
“by applying what they learn,
dedicating their life to Jehovah,
“and getting baptized.
Only then will they survive Jehovah’s day.”
In most parts of the earth,
people are not waiting in line
for Bible studies.
So we have to be proactive,
trying our best to find people
with whom we can start and conduct
progressive studies,
using our interactive Bible course.
We want as many righthearted persons
as possible
to become
Jehovah’s willing, loyal Witnesses.
Here are seven suggestions
you can write down now and try later.
They really work!
The first and most important is:
Pray for a Bible study.
Never underestimate the power of prayer,
so be specific in your prayers
and keep praying for studies.
Work in harmony with your prayers
by offering studies at every opportunity,
including to your relatives
and acquaintances.
(2) Show people the brochure.
Use the intriguing question on the back cover
to pique their interest.
It asks:
“Is it possible to enjoy life forever?”
Offer to cover the three introductory lessons
in the brochure.
After that,
the person can decide
whether to continue
with the rest of the Bible course
in the book.
(3) Try the direct approach.
Introduce yourself as a Bible teacher,
and come right out and ask people
whether they would like
to learn more about the Bible.
Explain that we have a most enjoyable
and easy interactive Bible course
and that you have openings
in your teaching schedule.
(4) Ask your studies for referrals.
You can do this while studying
the first paragraph of lesson 01.
It asks: “Do you think that the Bible
can help anyone you know?”
If your student mentions a friend,
a relative, a neighbor, or a workmate,
offer to demonstrate the course
to that person.
(5) Approach meeting attenders.
Don’t assume that interested ones
you see at congregation meetings
are already studying.
Ask them,
and if they are not currently studying,
offer to get them started.
(6) Ask non-Witness marriage mates.
When was the last time
they were offered a Bible study?
Even if they had declined an offer
in the past,
they might be interested now.
And they may prefer to study
with someone outside their family.
And (7) talk to those who’ve studied before.
Did you study with someone years ago
in one of our other publications
who did not make any progress?
Why not contact them,
explain that we have
a new interactive Bible course,
and ask if they’d like to study again?
This may be just what they need now
to act on what they learn.
A key principle that applies to the efforts
we put forth in the Bible study work
is found at Galatians 6:9, which says:
“So let us not give up in doing what is fine,
“for in due time we will reap
if we do not tire out.”
So may we never lose our enthusiasm
in making disciples
nor relax our efforts.
With Jehovah’s rich blessing
on our Bible study activity
using Enjoy Life Forever!
we’ll be able to say thankfully:
“O Jehovah, . . . everything we have done
you have accomplished for us”!
One way we’ve been trained
to become better disciple-makers
is through the videos.
Do you remember
when we first met Neeta and Jade
during the 2020 “Always Rejoice”! Convention?
That series provided so many valuable lessons
about what it takes
to be an effective teacher.
This month we have another new dramatization.
And in this episode,
the story has come full circle,
with Jade now conducting
her first Bible study
using Enjoy Life Forever!
Stop the ball!
So, what’s your biggest question about life?
Why are people so obsessed
with kicking round objects?
Well, there’s that.
But seriously, anything?
Why do people hate?
If we’re all God’s children, what’s the deal?
Good question
and one the Bible definitely answers, um.
But you’ve a train to catch.
So we’ll stop there.
But, um, is Tuesday still good?
Assuming space-time hasn’t collapsed
into a singularity,
I’m open.
OK, cool.
So, um, on Tuesday, we’ll carry on with,
um, that chapter, this section here . . .
Hey.
Hi.
So?
How’s the study going?
Brilliant!
We’re zipping right through the easy stuff.
So, what I love about this prophecy
is that it was written,
like, 200 years before it actually happened,
and every single detail came true.
The men in charge just left the gates open.
I mean, I would have fired anyone
that got drunk
and left the city gates open.
Anyway, back to the prophecy . . .
So “God is love,”
but he’s going to kill billions.
How does that work?
Well, it’ll make sense later.
But for now,
let’s just focus on what
I was talking about earlier.
What’s so nice about this chapter
is that it’s talking about prayer.
Well, it’s talking about how Jehovah
helps us with prayer,
and so it’s really lovely because we can pray
to someone that’s created . . .
Basically, all of this is evidence
of “the last days.”
So, what would you say
are the signs of the last days?
Wars,
disasters,
rude people, mm, yeah.
Anything else?
No.
OK, that’s fine.
We can just, um—
We’ll just review it in the next lesson.
It’s fine.
Do you want to just wrap it up now then?
Yeah.
Is everything OK?
Blissful.
I’m going to go.
All right. Bye, Gladys.
And she just said one word, I just—
I don’t know what to do.
Wow! Thankfully I’ve never had
a student like that.
OK, she’s really getting
a hang of this irony thing, isn’t she?
But seriously, I—
I really put myself into the study
to try and make it live.
And I get “Yes,”
“No,”
“Maybe,”
or another insufferable, off-topic question.
Maybe let’s do a bit of research?
I knew you’d say that.
I’ll put the kettle on.
Thanks, Keesha.
Here we go
—October 2020 Watchtower—
this box.
“Exercise self-control
by not talking too much.”
I guess I do need help.
But look:
“Let the student see
that you’re excited about Bible truths.”
Spot-on there!
“Make friends in the congregation.”
Oh, I could, or maybe we could, do this.
“Look for signs
that reveal [her] desire to serve Jehovah.”
Who’s free on Friday?
Sorry, Jade. I’m busy.
Oh.
Yeah. I’d love to.
OK.
Uh, Jade, Jade, my tablet?
No? Gone. OK.
Hey.
So a surprise today:
My usual lecture has been canceled
in favor of a discussion, and . . .
Jade, I’m not really the drumroll type.
Oh, hey.
Hi.
I’m Neeta, one of Jade’s roommates.
And you’re?
Gladys.
So let’s start with the question
you hit me with last time,
which is, Why do we stay neutral
when we see injustice?
I take it you’ve had your fair share?
Uh-huh.
Me too,
although not as bad as my mum and dad
from what they tell me.
But how will things ever change
if we don’t do something about it?
Let’s see what the Bible has to say
at Jeremiah 10:23.
Could you read that?
“I well know, O Jehovah,
“that man’s way does not belong to him.
“It does not belong to man who is walking
even to direct his step.”
But if that’s true,
then the future of the human race
is looking quite bleak.
Does that mean then
that there’s no hope for us
and there’s no point in carrying on?
What’s the point?
Hmm. Good question.
Very good question.
Jade was excited to conduct a study,
but she learned that making disciples
takes more than just enthusiasm.
It also requires the patience
and the self-control
to talk less and listen more.
Neeta helped Jade improve her teaching
by doing a little research
in the October 2020 issue of The Watchtower,
which featured two study articles
on conducting Bible studies.
Earlier that same year,
the January issue featured
another study article entitled
“Go, Therefore, and Make Disciples.”
That article was filled with suggestions
on how to help our students
draw closer to Jehovah.
Listen to the impact those suggestions
have had on three regular pioneers
in our next video from the series
Lessons From The Watchtower.
Our goal as teachers
is to help the person
to become a disciple of Christ.
I want my student
to love Jehovah
the same way that I do.
What I most enjoy
is conducting Bible studies.
Being able to see
a student grow spiritually
is a joy that can’t be put into words.
The Watchtower  of January 2020
mentions several things
that we need to keep in mind
as we conduct a study.
Studying the article,
I saw how many changes I needed to make
when I conduct a Bible study.
It highlighted that besides helping
the student to gain knowledge,
it’s even more important
that we help them progress
to the point of dedicating
their lives to Jehovah
and, of course, getting baptized.
Even though I read
about how we should stop studying
with nonprogressive Bible studies,
I didn’t feel comfortable doing it
because I was afraid
I might make the wrong decision.
Although I was pretty sure
that my Bible student wasn’t yet married
(that is legally married,
she had never told me this directly),
I just didn’t feel comfortable
talking with her about it.
I had a Bible student who always prepared for
and commented well at the study.
I kept inviting her to the meetings,
but she never went to a single one,
and she never attended the Memorial.
I saw that she still had ties
with some aspects of her religion.
The article brought out
that in the first few weeks,
as soon as the study becomes regular,
it’s important to start praying
with the student.
It used to take me a long time
to start doing that.
The article helped me
because it encouraged me
to bring others with me on the study
and also not to be afraid
to bring along those
who are more experienced.
In the article,
it brought out how important it is
not just for us to pray with our students
but also to help them
to begin saying their own prayers as well.
After that, when the study became regular,
I’d pray before and after each session.
And I encouraged each of them
to also begin praying to Jehovah personally.
So praying became a daily habit for them.
A circuit overseer’s wife
went with me on my study,
and she asked my student
if she was married.
“Yes, I’m married.”
“But are you legally married?”
And then she responded, “No.”
So that really opened up an opportunity
for me to help the student out
with this situation.
The article gave some suggestions
about how we need to pay attention
to the student’s spiritual progress.
It really should be consistent.
We studied for a long time,
a little over a year.
And that’s when I realized
that it was time for me
to stop and decide
if I should discontinue the study.
Then I put into practice the suggestion
from The Watchtower  of January 2020.
I told her: “You really are someone
who appreciates God’s Word,
“and you’re always regular
with your studies.
“But like we just read about,
there’s some fruitage in your life
that’s missing.”
But she responded,
“But I think it’s all in Jehovah’s time.”
So I said,
“Jehovah has already invited you personally,
so it’s really up to you now.”
But she kept saying, “Well, to me,
it’ll happen in Jehovah’s time.”
Unfortunately,
it seemed better to discontinue the study
because she showed that she didn’t feel
the need to make progress.
This article was a present from Jehovah.
It was like everything that was important
came all together in just one article.
We’re living in urgent times,
so we need to be as efficient as possible.
The spiritual progress a person makes,
which may have taken five years,
can take place now.
If you’re currently conducting a Bible study,
did you see any points
you could put into practice?
Are you starting each study with prayer
and teaching your student how to pray?
Are you regularly inviting others
to join you on the study?
And are you skillfully using questions
to find out what’s really
on your student’s mind?
The art of using questions
is the topic of our next video in the series
“Iron Sharpens Iron.”
Hi. I’m Armando.
Welcome to “Iron Sharpens Iron.”
We’ve all been there.
We’re out in the ministry
trying to start conversations with people.
But for many of us, it’s not that easy.
Just the idea of talking to a stranger
can be intimidating.
Personally, I’m not someone who finds it easy
to just walk up to a stranger
and start a conversation.
But with some effort and time,
I’ve learned a few methods
that have helped me to overcome my fears.
Today, we’re going to concentrate
on just one of them:
using questions to start
and maintain a conversation.
And perhaps by the time we’re done,
you’ll realize like I have
that it’s not as difficult as it seems.
Hi, there.
Ah, well, we’re asking
our neighbors a question,
and we’d like to know your opinion.
Have you ever asked yourself
what we need to do to have a happy family?
No. I’m not married.
Oh, ah, OK.
Well, we have this brochure
that talks about . . .
OK, three things:
First, the brother was nervous.
When we’re nervous, we make
the person we’re speaking with nervous too.
Of course, it’s difficult not to be nervous,
but if we concentrate too much
on how we feel,
we can forget that what we want to do
is simply to start a conversation.
There’s no pressure; just keep it casual.
Second, yes, the brother did ask a question,
but the question was irrelevant
to the householder.
It’s usually better to ask something
that will encourage the person
to participate in the conversation
but will also help us to discern
what interests them.
Third, one of the biggest fears we have is,
What if my question
doesn’t connect with them?
This can throw us off.
We feel like we have nowhere to go.
It would have been better
to have a flexible approach
that would allow us to react
according to what the person says.
Let’s try it again,
but this time let’s approach the situation
a little differently.
In the first few pages of our Bible,
there are 20 questions
that we can use in the ministry.
Why not start familiarizing ourselves
with them?
We can choose
one or two subjects that we like
so that we will be ready
when an opportunity arises.
Let’s see how our brother does this
in the next demonstration.
Hi, there.
We’re asking our neighbors a question,
and we’d love to know your opinion.
What would you say is something
that causes you a lot of stress?
Personally, I worry a lot about money
and paying all my bills.
Yeah, I think that’s the case for many of us.
Did you know
that the Bible explains something
that can help us specifically
with that anxiety?
Really?
In the front of my Bible,
there are 20 questions that many of us ask
and that the Bible answers.
Notice question 16,
“How can you cope with anxiety?”
Notice what this scripture says
in Proverbs 21:5:
“The plans of the diligent . . .”
Much better, right?
Did you notice that when the person answered,
the brother simply opened his Bible
to the questions
and found a scripture that allowed him
to continue the conversation?
And he didn’t try to hide what he was doing.
He showed the person the tool he was using.
He felt confident
that however the person responded,
he would be able to find a useful scripture
that would keep the conversation moving.
So that went pretty well,
but maybe you’re thinking,
‘It almost never happens like that for me.’
Perhaps in our case,
it’s more like this.
Hi, there.
We’re asking our neighbors a question,
and we’d love to know your opinion.
What would you say is something
that causes you a lot of stress?
People coming to my door
and asking me questions.
I understand.
I’m not a fan of that myself.
But have you ever wondered why we do this?
Now, at this point, the householder
may shut down the conversation completely.
And that’s fine. We’re not trying to pressure
anyone into talking.
But that second question
that the publisher asked
and the fact that he was calm,
that he was relaxed,
and that he was not taking himself
too seriously
—all of that can open the door
for the conversation to continue.
To sum up, remember:
First, be calm and relaxed.
We’re just trying to start a conversation.
Smile; be friendly.
Second, ask a question
that brings a person into the conversation
and allows us to discover
what interests them.
And third, don’t be nervous
about where the conversation could lead.
With our 20 questions for the ministry,
we can be sure
that we’ll find an appropriate text
that will keep the conversation
directed toward spiritual matters.
This is one of the methods
that has helped me,
and I hope that it can help you too
as you see for yourself
how “iron sharpens iron.”
Do you sometimes feel like Brother Pérez
and find that it isn’t so easy
to walk up to a stranger
and start a conversation?
Using the questions in the front of our Bible
may be just what you need
to help get a conversation going.
Of course, making disciples
takes more than technical teaching skill.
First and foremost,
we have to love people,
regardless of their race,
background, or lifestyle.
Jehovah is impartial,
and we have to be the same way
as we search out deserving ones.
That was the topic
of a recent morning worship
by Brother William Turner.
His talk highlights the many ways
we need to imitate Jehovah’s impartiality
not just in our ministry
but at all times.
Well, today’s text comments mention
the effect that prejudice
had on Jesus’ disciples.
And as we think about that today
and how we are part of an organization
that is much more diverse
than in the first century,
it raises the question,
Does prejudice still have an impact
on God’s people today?
We’re very thankful
that we love and serve a God
who does not tolerate prejudice.
The Bible states that quite plainly.
Turn with me, please, to the book of Acts,
and we note the words
of the apostle Peter in Acts chapter 10.
In verse 34, it says:
“At this Peter began to speak, and he said:
“‘Now I truly understand
“‘that God is not partial,
“‘but in every nation
“‘the man who fears him
and does what is right
is acceptable to him.’”
Now, if you look at the study note,
it mentions that the Greek phrase
for “is not partial”
literally means “is not one who takes faces.”
And that perfectly
describes Jehovah, doesn’t it?
He does not favor one face, one individual,
over another
because of their race, nationality,
social standing,
or any other external factors.
And that’s how
you and I strive to be as well.
However, we must acknowledge
that it is a challenge to be impartial,
largely because in today’s world
we are surrounded by prejudice.
So to answer that question:
Does prejudice have an impact
on God’s people today?
—indeed, it does.
We may be victims of it,
or we ourselves might hold some prejudice.
Interestingly, The Watchtower  back in 2013
made this comment, it said:
“If we are honest with ourselves,
“we have to admit that deep down
“we all harbor varying degrees of prejudice
in one form or another.”
So if this is something
that is a human tendency
and we’re all plagued with it,
at least to some degree,
then how do we overcome it?
Well, it might be helpful
to start with the word itself.
As Sister Leithiser mentioned,
the dictionary defines prejudice
as “a preconceived opinion
that is not based
on reason or actual experience.”
A preconceived opinion
has to do with how we think and how we feel
—thoughts that likely
have been shaped by our personal experiences,
our upbringing, and our environment.
Now, maybe when we think of prejudice,
perhaps our minds
go to or we focus on racial prejudice
—hatred or animosity toward someone.
We talked a little bit about that last week.
But The Watchtower
also mentioned that prejudices
can also be formed against
another person because of their weight,
gender, language, social status,
religion, or virtually
any perceived difference.
So if prejudice starts with our personality
or our personal preconceived opinions,
then the way to overcome it
has to start by elevating our minds
to God’s way of thinking.
Again, if we go back to the Bible,
this time to 1 Samuel chapter 16,
notice how Jehovah
brings this to light—1 Samuel chapter 16.
And let’s recall what happens
when Samuel goes to the house of Jesse
to appoint one of his sons as king.
Verse 6 says:
“As they came in and he saw Eliab, he said:
“‘Surely here before Jehovah
stands his anointed one.’
“But Jehovah said to Samuel:
“‘Do not pay attention
to his appearance and how tall he is,
for I have rejected him.’”
Now, if we stop there for a moment,
did you notice what Samuel did?
In this particular instance,
he was as that Greek phrase denoted,
“a taker of faces,” wasn’t he?
He looked at Eliab;
he saw how tall and how handsome he looked.
Surely, this must be Jehovah’s choice.
But note how the verse continues;
note the teaching point:
“‘For the way man
sees is not the way God sees,
“‘because mere man
sees what appears to the eyes,
but Jehovah sees into the heart.’”
That’s what matters to Jehovah
—what’s in our heart,
what we are on the inside.
And he’s looking
for those qualities in each of us
that reflect his impartiality.
Now, how is this of benefit to us,
since you and I cannot read hearts?
Well, let’s go back to the study note.
The rest of the study note
for Acts 10:34 gives us the answer,
because it says:
“Imitating God’s impartiality means,
“not making surface judgments,
but paying attention
to the character and qualities of others.”
Now, perhaps one way we can illustrate this
is with the example of a geode.
Now, look at this picture.
On its outside surface,
a geode looks pretty ordinary and nondescript
—no different than any big rock
or stone you’d find outside.
But if you break it open,
ah, quite a different story.
Now, when you look inside,
you see these beautiful
sparkling crystals of varying colors
that are just quite beautiful
and really radiant to the eye.
Well, what’s our point?
When we make surface judgments
or preconceived opinions about our brothers,
often aren’t we looking at them
like the outside of that geode?
All that we see is just the external surface.
And isn’t it so true
that perhaps if someone is shy,
quiet, or reserved,
it’s so easy to label them, isn’t it?
We sized them up,
and we quickly come to the conclusion:
“Ah, you know what, there’s not much there.
They really don’t have much to offer.”
Or it could be that the person is very
talkative, loud, extroverted—same thing.
We label them and form an opinion.
Could it be in those
particular instances that we have become
“a taker of faces”?
We’ve made a judgment
purely based on personal opinion
or what we feel is acceptable.
But to imitate Jehovah’s way of thinking,
we have to go beyond the surface;
we have to focus on the character
and the qualities of our brothers,
and with some people that may take time.
You know, with the geode, one expert stated:
“There are many
different ways to open a geode.
“But no matter how you do it,
the key is patience, patience, patience.”
And isn’t it true
that it’s the same with our brothers?
It takes time and patience
to get to know them,
time and patience
to understand the way that they think,
to show personal interest
by asking questions,
to work with them in the ministry,
and to consider their suggestions.
But when we do, well, we’re rewarded.
We begin to see the crystals;
we begin to see their inner beauty inside;
we discover true depth
in our brothers and sisters,
and hopefully they do in us as well.
Now, going back to Jesus’ disciples,
while the Bible candidly details
a number of accounts
showing their human traits
and their prejudicial feelings at times,
it also highlights
how they overcame those feelings.
Just look at how much we read and meditate
on the Christian Greek Scriptures
and how much those verses
and books emphasize love,
opening our hearts, loving our brothers,
getting along with one another,
and widening out.
The disciples did not allow
any deep-rooted feelings
or things from their upbringing
or their environment to control them.
And you and I can be the same.
But it all starts
with an honest self-examination:
‘Can I identify any traces
of prejudice within me?’
And if we can, well,
it all starts with our thinking
—elevating our thinking
to Jehovah’s way of thinking.
Let’s avoid surface judgments,
being “a taker of faces.”
Let’s take the time
to get to know our brothers
and appreciate their character and qualities
—their inner beauty.
Jesus told his disciples at Matthew 23:8:
“All of you are brothers.”
And what made them brothers?
At Matthew 12:50, Jesus said:
“For whoever does the will of my Father . . . ,
“that one is my brother
and sister and mother.”
It’s a nice reminder, isn’t it?
We are all part of a large spiritual family
united by our faith and love for God.
And if we see each other that way,
that will help us to remain humble
and recognize that we have no reason
to elevate ourselves above others.
Instead, we’re going to be filled
with so much love and appreciation
to be part of this organization
as we imitate our impartial God
and Father, Jehovah.
With prejudice and discrimination
so rampant in the world around us,
those reminders couldn’t be more timely.
We’ve been talking a lot
during this broadcast
about helping our students
become disciples.
For those of you who are parents,
your most precious students are,
of course, your own children.
As teachers,
we have to help them prepare
for the pressures they’ll face in school.
And those pressures
are more intense now than ever
—especially when it comes
to sexual immorality.
In this episode of My Teen Life,
we’ll hear from two young people
who successfully resisted
the temptations to have sex.
How did they do it?
Well, every day in high school,
my classmates would talk about sex.
They would just talk about, you know,
their boyfriends and girlfriends
—what they did with them,
you know, over the weekend
and what they’re going to do.
They, of course, knew
that I was one of Jehovah’s Witnesses
and that I wouldn’t engage in premarital sex,
but that did not stop them from pushing.
Guys would invade my personal space.
Sometimes they would even try
to, you know, grab or touch me.
One day, a girl in class asked me
to touch her inappropriately.
Of course, I rejected her,
but she even started
or resorted to calling me names.
She called me lame,
and she said that I must be gay.
It seemed to be a game to them
to try to break me
and try to get me
to do things with them.
But the fact that I wouldn’t give in,
they thought it was fun or funny.
It got to the point
where this became very physical.
I had two classmates
behind me that were pushing me.
One classmate on each side of me
was grabbing my arms
and pushing me,
trying to make me touch her.
I knew that it was time to get out of there.
Being one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
I was already very different in school,
but I was also very shy.
So at times, I wanted to fit in
with the crowd so that I wouldn’t have
that attention on me.
But I knew that this would displease Jehovah
if I, you know, went with the crowd
and did what the other kids were doing.
Well, I did say a quick,
silent prayer to Jehovah;
I said, “Jehovah, just please help me.”
I immediately in my mind thought of Joseph.
He was able to free himself
from Potiphar’s wife,
but he was able to get away
because of his resolve to please Jehovah.
And that’s exactly
what I knew I needed to do.
And I did just that
—I ran right out of the classroom.
Personal study was very important.
This made Jehovah really real to me.
The more real he was to me,
the more I didn’t want
to displease him and hurt him.
Having that relationship with him
and having that trust in him
really helped me get through those situations
of wanting to fit in
and going with the crowd.
Rejecting that girl was not easy,
but I did know
that it was the right thing to do.
Shortly before this incident,
my grandmother actually prepared me.
She would prepare Watchtower  articles for me
that talked about
how to deal with temptation.
Although those talks with her
were super-duper awkward,
if I’m being honest, they really helped me
to stay spiritually strong
and to resist the temptation.
My parents always told me
to use farsighted wisdom
—to think about how
that action would affect me
in the future,
affect my relationship with Jehovah
and with my friends and my family.
That definitely went
through my head a lot during that time.
All you need to do is trust in Jehovah,
because if you trust in him,
then everything is going to be OK.
The publication
that really helped me the most
was the Young People Ask  book, Volume 2,
chapter 5, “Why Stay a Virgin?”
This book was really a lifesaver for me.
Reading about how some
of my peers all around the world
are dealing with the exact same temptation
really gave me a sense of comfort
and helped me to feel that I was not alone.
Well, I’m really grateful
to Jehovah and the organization
for the love that they show to us young ones
—to help us not feel alone and to help us
push through these difficult situations.
The Young People Ask  book, Volume 2,
chapter 14,
“How Can I Protect Myself at School?”
really encouraged me in school
to be firm and to stand my ground
to make Jehovah happy.
Well, I’m so thankful to Jehovah
for recalling scriptures
like 1 Corinthians 6:18,
which says: “Flee from sexual immorality!”
And I’m happy to say
that I was able to do just that.
But, really, what makes me the happiest
is knowing that I made Jehovah happy,
and there is no greater feeling than that.
We know that many of you young ones
are just like Kamryn and Cory,
and we’re so proud of you
for the courageous stand you take every day.
We know it isn’t easy,
but remember,
when you take that stand,
you’re making Jehovah’s heart glad.
It takes courage to be different.
For many of our brothers and sisters
that courage is being tested
in a special way.
They’re preaching and making disciples
in lands where the work
is restricted or under ban.
How do they muster the courage
to keep on preaching despite opposition?
That’s the theme
of this month’s new music video.
I woke up this morning and dressed for the day.
I prayed to Jehovah and went on my way.
I was told not to preach, but I cannot bend.
God is my Ruler rather than men.
And like the breeze blowing out in the field,
I feel peace right here.
I know Jehovah’s with me,
so why should I fear?
As I get back home and think about this day,
That man on the bench had so much to say.
So I pray that I’ll see him again there soon.
I know he’d feel better if he had the truth.
And like the breeze blowing out in the field,
I feel peace right here.
I know Jehovah’s with me,
so why should I fear?
Like a fire that’s burning deep in my heart,
These words I will speak; I’ll do my part.
I’ll spread his name the best that I can,
And I will keep going right down to the end.
Knowing my brothers are fighting this fight,
I’ll strengthen my faith, keep it alive.
Trusting Jehovah, his praises I’ll sing,
Knowing the new world he soon will bring.
As I lay my head down to sleep tonight,
I thank Jehovah and turn out the light.
What tomorrow may bring, I do not know,
But I know that I won’t face it alone.
And like the breeze blowing out in the field,
I feel peace right here.
I know Jehovah’s with me,
so why should I fear?
so I will not fear.
Like the young brother
portrayed in our video,
we can gain confidence,
knowing that when we’re in the ministry,
Jehovah is with us every step of the way.
Our program has shown us the many ways
Jehovah has equipped us to make disciples
by giving us the best tools
and the best training.
Being a disciple-maker
also means being courageous
when it comes to taking a stand
for our moral principles
and preaching even when opposed.
We know Jehovah will bless all your hard work
as you go on making disciples.
One part of the world
where the disciple-making work
has been thriving
for well over 100 years
is Australia, our destination
in this month’s video postcard.
Australia is a vast island continent
four times larger
than the largest island in the world.
Situated between the Indian
and Pacific oceans,
Australia is a land of dramatic contrasts.
It’s the second driest continent
after Antarctica,
with vast deserts.
Yet, some of its mountain ranges
receive enough snow
to have earned the name the Australian Alps!
Off the coast of Queensland in the northeast,
you’ll find the Great Barrier Reef,
which is the largest coral reef system
on earth!
Whether you’re traveling
in Australia’s dusty outback
or along the coast,
you’ll likely see many kangaroos.
That’s not surprising because there are
many more kangaroos in Australia
than there are people.
Kangaroos are native to Australia,
as are many other animals,
including the koala,
wombat,
possum,
emu,
and the unique duck-billed platypus.
Seeds of truth reached Australia
as far back as 1884.
The Australia branch was established in 1904,
making it one of the oldest branches
in the world.
Today it’s called the Australasia branch
and oversees the preaching
not just in Australia and New Zealand
but in many islands of the South Pacific.
In the early days,
brothers covered the vast Australian territory
traveling by bicycle, truck, cart,
and even camel.
Today, more than 70,400 publishers
and 7,500 pioneers
are preaching
in almost 40 different languages.
A special effort is made to reach
Australia’s native Aboriginal people.
To assist those hungering for the truth,
literature has been translated
into some of the indigenous languages.
Our Australian brothers and sisters
have also found success
preaching on passenger trains
and at railway stations.
This is the Broken Hill Station,
a stop on the Indian Pacific  route,
which runs more than 4,300 kilometers,
or about 2,700 miles, from Sydney to Perth.
Many have learned the truth
as a result of the preaching
along this train line.
Most of Australia’s nearly
26 million inhabitants
live in cities and towns
not far from the coast.
One of those towns is Nowra,
home of the Nowra-West Congregation.
With a little help from Zoom,
the 80 brothers and sisters
of the Nowra-West Congregation
send you their warmest love.
From the world headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.